Feature/spiffe (#798)
ordina-jworks/ordina-jworks.github.io: _posts/2023-08-30-spiffe.md

---
layout: post
authors: [nicholas_meyers]
title: 'Going password-less in a multi cloud environment with SPIFFE'
image: /img/2023-08-30-spiffe/banner.png
tags: [Security, AWS, Kubernetes, Cloud]
category: Security
comments: true
---

> SPIFFE, developed by CNCF, stands as an open-source solution. It operates as a standardized framework dedicated to the secure identification and fortification of communication channels among diverse application services.

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Install cert manager](#install-cert-manager)
- [Install SPIFFE](#install-spiffe)
- [Configure AWS](#configure-aws)
- [Deploy application](#deploy-application)
- [Conclusion](#conclusion)
- [Extra](#extra)

## Introduction

> In an era where data breaches and cyberattacks dominate headlines, traditional password-based authentication methods increasingly fail to provide the security and convenience that today's dynamic, multi-cloud environments demand. Enter SPIFFE, the Secure Production Identity Framework for Everyone, a revolutionary solution that not only addresses the shortcomings of passwords but also unlocks a new era of identity management in complex, distributed systems.

Reviewer: Maybe include examples to where credential leakage made the news.

As businesses expand their operations across multiple cloud platforms, maintaining consistent and robust authentication mechanisms becomes all the more daunting. The complexities of managing access across various clouds, services, and applications while safeguarding sensitive data demand a paradigm shift. This is where going "passwordless" emerges as a beacon of innovation, promising enhanced security, streamlined user experiences, and simplified administration.

This blog post will explain how to install SPIFFE on your on-premises Kubernetes cluster. Additionally, we will deploy an application that will establish a connection with an S3 bucket.

## Install Cert-manager

> Installing cert-manager on your Kubernetes cluster before installing SPIFFE is a crucial step. Cert-manager is a widely used tool that automates the management of TLS certificates within Kubernetes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Installing [cert-manager](https://cert-manager.io/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"} on your Kubernetes cluster before installing SPIFFE is a crucial step. Cert-manager is a widely used tool that automates the management of TLS certificates within Kubernetes.
```

Integrating SPIFFE into your Kubernetes cluster relies on secure communication channels established through TLS certificates. Cert-manager simplifies the management and issuance of these certificates, ensuring that the identities and connections established by SPIFFE are trustworthy and adequately encrypted.

### Create a namespace for cert-manager

We begin by creating a namespace where we will deploy cert-manager and SPIFFE.<br>
Use the following two commands to create the namespaces and switch to the desired namespace:

```bash
kubectl create namespace cert-manager
kubectl config set-context --current --namespace=cert-manager
```

### Add jetstack

> To install Cert-manager and SPIFFE, we use Helm. In order to install these Helm charts, we need to fetch the Jetstack repository locally.<br>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to install Cert-manager and SPIFFE, we can make use of the Helm package manager and install these Helm charts on our cluster. To achieve this, we need to fetch the Jetstack repository locally.<br>
```

> To install Cert Manager and SPIFFE, we use Helm. In order to install these Helm charts, we need to fetch the Jetstack repository locally.<br>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To install Cert-manager and SPIFFE, we use Helm. In order to install these Helm charts, we need to fetch the Jetstack repository locally.<br>
```

Use the following commands to achieve this:

```bash
helm repo add jetstack https://charts.jetstack.io
helm repo update
```

### Install cert manager

Now that we can install packages from Jetstack, we can proceed to install Cert Manager on our Kubernetes cluster.<br>
Use the following commands to install Cert Manager:

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/cert-manager/cert-manager/releases/download/v1.11.0/cert-manager.crds.yaml
helm upgrade --install cert-manager jetstack/cert-manager --version v1.11.0 --set prometheus.enabled=false
```

## Install SPIFFE

### Install SPIFFE

Now that Cert Manager is installed, we can proceed to the installation of SPIFFE.<br>
To do this, use the following command:

> Please note: for the trusted domain, you could use a different name; I suggest using the name of your Kubernetes cluster. You will need this domain name later when setting up AWS policies.

Reviewer 2: Maybe put this in Italic?
```suggestion
<i>Please note: for the trusted domain, you could use a different name; I suggest using the name of your Kubernetes cluster. You will need this domain name later when setting up AWS policies.</i>
```

```bash
helm upgrade --install cert-manager-csi-driver-spiffe jetstack/cert-manager-csi-driver-spiffe --wait \
--set image.tag=aws \
--set image.repository.driver=ghcr.io/joshvanl/cert-manager-csi-driver \
--set image.repository.approver=ghcr.io/joshvanl/cert-manager-csi-driver-approver \
--set "app.logLevel=1" \
--set "app.trustDomain=demo.home.cluster" \
--set "app.approver.signerName=clusterissuers.cert-manager.io/csi-driver-spiffe-ca" \
--set "app.issuer.name=csi-driver-spiffe-ca" \
--set "app.issuer.kind=ClusterIssuer" \
--set "app.issuer.group=cert-manager.io"
```

### Configure SPIFFE

To obtain and renew certificates automatically, we use the following ClusterIssuer.<br>
Deploy it using the following command:

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nicholasM95/spiffe-demo/main/setup/clusterissuer.yaml
```

### Verify installation

> Verify if all pods have started and check whether the secret csi-driver-spiffe-ca has been created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Verify if all pods have started and check whether the secret `csi-driver-spiffe-ca` has been created.
```

<img src="{{ '/img/2023-08-30-spiffe/spiffe-1.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" alt="Verify spiffe installation" class="image fit" style="margin:0px auto; max-width:100%">

## Configure AWS
### Create the s3 bucket

> Create an S3 bucket with the name 'demospiffe' and upload a text file named 'hello.txt'. Our application will read this file later.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a S3 bucket with the name 'demospiffe' and upload a text file named 'hello.txt'. Our application will read this file later.
```

Reviewer 2: Bucket names are global and not restricted to an account, so it might give off the wrong idea if it says to create a bucket with a specific name rather than letting the user decide one.

<img src="{{ '/img/2023-08-30-spiffe/spiffe-2.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" alt="Create S3 bucket" class="image fit" style="margin:0px auto; max-width:100%">

### Create a trusted anchor
In the context of AWS, a trusted anchor might involve setting up a trust relationship with an external identity provider or certificate authority. This ensures that the SPIFFE identities generated within the Kubernetes cluster can be verified and trusted by AWS services when defining policies, access controls, or other security-related configurations.

To achieve this, we need a CA certificate that is utilized by SPIFFE on our Kubernetes cluster. Use the following command to obtain the CA certificate:

```bash
kubectl get secret csi-driver-spiffe-ca -o jsonpath='{.data}'
```

Copy the value of ca.crt and decode it using base64.
Example: 

```bash
echo 'copied-value' | base64 -d
```

Navigate to the IAM section within AWS and access the "Roles" tab.
Scroll down and choose "Roles Anywhere."
Ensure that you are still within the desired region.
Generate a trust anchor.
Opt for the external certificate bundle option.

> Paste the decoded value of ca.crt from the secret.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Paste the decoded value of `ca.crt` from the secret.
```

<img src="{{ '/img/2023-08-30-spiffe/spiffe-3.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" alt="Create Trust anchor" class="image fit" style="margin:0px auto; max-width:100%">

### Create a trusted profile

> A trusted profile serves as a mechanism to establish trust, define access controls, and enable secure interaction between SPIFFE-issued identities within a Kubernetes cluster and AWS resources. It ensures a smooth and secure integration between these two environments while maintaining a strong security posture.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A trusted profile establishes trust, defines access controls, and enables secure interaction between SPIFFE-issued identities within a Kubernetes cluster and AWS resources. It ensures a smooth and secure integration between these two environments while maintaining a solid security posture.
```

We require a policy that allows our application, operating in the 'spiffe' namespace with service account 'file-read-app', to gain read access to files within our designated bucket, all within the 'demo.home.cluster' cluster.

```json
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
	  "Statement": [
		    {
			      "Action": "s3:GetObject",
			      "Condition": {
				        "StringLike": {
					          "aws:PrincipalTag/x509SAN/URI": "spiffe://demo.home.cluster/ns/spiffe/sa/file-read-app"
				        }
			      },
			      "Effect": "Allow",

> 			      "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::demospiffe/*",

Reviewer 2: If you decide to go with my suggestion (your choice 😄), maybe change the 'demospiffe' part to something like <BUCKET_NAME>

  name: file-read-app
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: Role
  name: file-read-app
subjects:
  - kind: ServiceAccount
    name: file-read-app
```

Deploy role binding.

```bash
kubectl apply -f rolebinding.yaml
```

### Deploy application

Create a new file named 'deployment.yaml' with the following content.
If necessary, update the environment variables.
Fill in the three AWS resources with the one you have generated.

SPIFFE will mount files in the volume we created here, SPIFFE would create a certificate to communicat with AWS. 
After the certificate is genereated SPIFFE will use this to retrieve aws credentials and also mount this.

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: demo-spiffe
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app.kubernetes.io/name: demospiffe
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app.kubernetes.io/name: demospiffe
    spec:
      serviceAccount: file-read-app
      containers:
        - name: demospiffe
          image: nicholas95/spiffedemo:dev-1
          imagePullPolicy: Always
          env:
            - name: AWS_REGION
              value: eu-west-1
            - name: AWS_BUCKET

>               value: demospiffe

Reviewer 2: Same here - change bucket name if u apply the suggestion

          volumeMounts:
            - mountPath: /root/.aws
              name: spiffe
      volumes:
        - csi:
            driver: spiffe.csi.cert-manager.io
            readOnly: true
            volumeAttributes:
              aws.spiffe.csi.cert-manager.io/enable: "true"

>               aws.spiffe.csi.cert-manager.io/role: arn:aws:iam::930970667460:role/nicholas_meyers_home_k8s_read

Author: Renamed so that it matches the screenshot, also mentioned the name in the creation step.

              aws.spiffe.csi.cert-manager.io/trust-anchor: arn:aws:rolesanywhere:eu-west-1:930970667460:trust-anchor/1bf58d4e-35c6-465c-a05c-1bdcce05054b
              aws.spiffe.csi.cert-manager.io/trust-profile: arn:aws:rolesanywhere:eu-west-1:930970667460:profile/fa6c37f9-f64a-4bdf-b0f6-c39ec5282aa4
          name: spiffe
```

Deploy application.

```bash
kubectl apply -f deployment.yaml
```
### Test our application

When your pod is started, you can open a shell into it using the following command and install curl. 
Once curl is installed, you can send a GET request to '/file/hello.txt', the response will be the content of the file in the S3 bucket.

```bash
kubectl exec -it <pod-name> -- /bin/sh
apk add curl
curl http://localhost:8080/file/hello.txt
exit
```

We've also included a file watcher to monitor the renewal of credentials and certificates.

<img src="{{ '/img/2023-08-30-spiffe/spiffe-5.png' | prepend: site.baseurl }}" alt="Filewatcher logging" class="image fit" style="margin:0px auto; max-width:100%">

> ## Conclusion

Reviewer: Please include a comparison with standard IRSA (https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/iam-roles-for-service-accounts.html) (aka workload identity) and this. (E.g. explain that you'd could use this approach to allow a local minikube / docker desktop installation of k8s to connect to AWS)

Explain that it can also be used outside of the K8s context. Compare it to what OpenIDConnect has done for user based SSO. 

Store all the example code in repository on your account and link it. This will improve "I want to test this" for users.

Author: repository mentioned in #extra

By setting up our connection with S3 in this manner, we eliminate the need to manage access keys and secret keys ourselves. As a result, the likelihood of our keys being leaked is minimized. Additionally, both our certificates and AWS credentials have a short lifespan.

Furthermore, we are relieved from the task of key rotation as this process occurs automatically.

## Extra

> Curious about establishing a connection to an AWS database without using passwords? This [post](https://ordina-jworks.github.io/cloud/2022/06/13/aws-rds-iam-authentication-spring-boot.html){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"} explains how to connect to an RDS from EKS without needing a password. Since we've already set up SPIFFE, you can also achieve this from your on-premises, azure, gcloud, ... environment.

Reviewer: Great idea / pitch!

Reviewer 2: <3

Against this backdrop, SPIFFE emerges as a powerful solution, offering the promise of robust identity management without the pitfalls of traditional password-based methods. By eliminating the reliance on easily compromised passwords and keys, SPIFFE not only addresses the security gaps but also paves the way for a more efficient, reliable, and future-ready authentication landscape.

This blog post will explain how to install SPIFFE on your on-premises Kubernetes cluster. Additionally, we will deploy an application that will establish a connection with an S3 bucket.

## How does it works

Authentication with SPIFFE relies on mutual Transport Layer Security (mTLS) protocol. mTLS is a form of secure communication that ensures both parties—client and server—authenticate each other using digital certificates, enhancing the security of data exchanged over the network.

> So, SPIFFE will generate a CA certificate that we'll utilize to establish trust and verify the certificates created by SPIFFE. It's crucial to upload this CA certificate to our AWS account, ensuring that AWS recognizes and trusts all incoming requests originating from our cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
So, SPIFFE will generate a CA certificate that we'll utilize to establish trust and verify the certificates created by SPIFFE. It's crucial to upload this CA certificate to our AWS account, ensuring that AWS recognizes and trusts all incoming requests from our cluster.
```

> SPIFFE generates short-lived certificates upon application startup for making requests. To maintain connection stability, SPIFFE periodically renews these certificates before their expiration date, ensuring seamless communication.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
SPIFFE generates short-lived certificates upon application startup for making requests. To maintain connection stability, SPIFFE periodically renews these certificates before expiration, ensuring seamless communication.
```

> As our pod initializes, SPIFFE comes into play by mounting certificates within the pod. These certificates serve a pivotal role in enabling secure calls to AWS via mutual TLS (mTLS). These calls are specifically aimed at acquiring AWS credentials, which are then accessible within our pod. However, just like the certificates, these AWS credentials follow a short-lived lifecycle. The remarkable aspect here is that SPIFFE takes on the responsibility of automatically renewing these credentials. This autonomous renewal process ensures that our AWS credentials remain up-to-date and effective, seamlessly aligning with SPIFFE's ethos of continual security enhancement.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As our pod initializes, SPIFFE comes into play by mounting certificates within the pod. These certificates serve a pivotal role in enabling secure calls to AWS via mutual TLS (mTLS). During these calls, our pod aims to acquire AWS credentials, which it can access internally. However, just like the certificates, these AWS credentials follow a short-lived lifecycle. The remarkable aspect here is that SPIFFE is responsible for automatically renewing these credentials. This autonomous renewal process ensures that our AWS credentials remain up-to-date and effective, seamlessly aligning with SPIFFE's ethos of continual security enhancement.
```

What's more, passwords and keys are frequently shared through emails, chat platforms, and even unintentionally committed to version control systems. They might find their way onto employees' devices, creating vulnerabilities that can be exploited by malicious actors. The need for a more secure, systematic, and foolproof identity management solution is evident.

In the dynamic landscape of distributed systems, SPIFFE stands as a powerful solution that revolutionizes identity management. By discarding the vulnerabilities associated with conventional password-based methods, SPIFFE offers a robust and secure approach. It ensures reliable authentication without the risks of easily compromised passwords and keys. In doing so, SPIFFE not only bridges security gaps but also propels us towards an authentication landscape that is more efficient, dependable, and poised for the future.

This blog post will explain how to install SPIFFE on your on-premises Kubernetes cluster. Additionally, we will deploy an application that will establish a connection with an S3 bucket.

> ## How does it works

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## How does it work
```

Authentication with SPIFFE relies on mutual Transport Layer Security (mTLS) protocol. mTLS is a form of secure communication that ensures both parties—client and server—authenticate each other using digital certificates, enhancing the security of data exchanged over the network.

> So, SPIFFE will generate a CA certificate that we'll utilize to establish trust and verify the certificates created by SPIFFE. It's crucial to upload this CA certificate to our AWS account, ensuring that AWS recognizes and trusts all incoming requests from our cluster.

Author: ACM word hier niet gebruikt.
Onder ### Create a trusted anchor staat wel waar de CA moet komen. Over welke service gaat dat dan? Of ok als het gewoon daar staat?

Navigate to the IAM section within AWS and access the "Roles" tab.
Scroll down and choose "Roles Anywhere."
Ensure that you are still within the desired region.
Generate a trust anchor.
Opt for the external certificate bundle option.
Paste the decoded value of `ca.crt` from the secret.
